.TH mogconvert 1 "16 May 2004" "mogconvert"
.SH NAME
mogconvert \- reencode audio files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI mogconvert
[
.BI \-sqt
]
[
.BI \-e " encmod "
]
[
.BI \-b " bitrate "
]
[
.BI \-i " inputfile "
]
[
.BI \-o " outputfile"
]
[
.BI \-l " time"
]
.br
.B mogconvert 
[
.BI \-h
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mogconvert
is a fast, lightweight  and reliable audio reencoding engine supporting multiple file formats. It has a modular design allowing greater flexibility and the ability to incorperate additional encoder and decoder modules with ease. The current version of
.B mogconvert
requires a little\-endian compatible machine to function, unless the source code was patched with patches/big_endian.patch before it was compiled.
.B mogconvert
also supports copying the text fields in it's input file to the output file, thus comments are not stripped.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\fB-e \fIencmod
Use the 
.B encmod
encoder module.
.TP
\fB-b \fIbitrate
Encode the output file as a 
.B bitrate
kbps file. Currently the output file's 
.B bitrate
is restricted to certain powers of two, namely 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 192, 320.
.TP
\fB-i \fIinputfile
Decode audio from 
.B inputfile.
.TP
\fB-o \fIoutputfile
Encode audio to 
.B outputfile.
.TP
\fB-h 
.br
Output usage information and exit.
.TP
\fB-s
.br
Output a summary of the user input. If no user input is given this option will display the default values for the above options. The defaults are as follows:
.br
	Input File      = /dev/stdin
.br
	Output File     = /dev/stdout
.br
	Encoder Module  = mp3
.br
	Bitrate         = 128 kbps
.br
	Reencode Time   = unlimited
.br
	Copy Tags       = yes
.br
	Check Validity  = yes
.br
.TP
\fB-l \fItime
Reencode the input file for a maximum of 
.B time
seconds. Default is to reencode the whole input file.
.TP
\fB-t
.br
Do not perform tag detection and do not copy tags to output file.
.TP
\fB-q
.br
Do not check the input file for validity. This is neccessary for reading from the standard input or from a pipe as we can not rewind the stream.
.br
.SH EXAMPLES
To recode input.ogg to output.mp3 at 320 kbps and print a summary of the user input before encoding:
.br
.RS
.B mogconvert -i input.ogg -o output.mp3 -b 320 -e mp3 -s
.RE
.PP
To recode an ogg to a 320 kbps mp3 and strip it's tags:
.RS
.B mogconvert -i input.ogg -o output.mp3 -b 320 -e mp3 -t
.RE
.PP
To recode an ogg from a pipe into a 320 kpbs mp3, and feed it out another pipe:
.RS
.B cat input.ogg | mogconvert -q -b 320 -e mp3 | less
.RE
.PP
To recode input.ogg to output.mp3 for a maximum of 5 seconds:
.RS
.B mogconvert -i input.ogg -e mp3 -o output.mp3 -l 5
.RE
.PP
To decode input.ogg to your audio device, and print a summary of user input:
.RS
.B mogconvert -i input.ogg -e ao -s
.RE
.PP
To play the first ten seconds of input.ogg to your audio device:
.RS
.B mogconvert -i input.ogg -e ao -l 10
.RE
.PP
To output usage information and exit:
.RS
.B mogconvert -h
.RE
.PP
.SH VERSION
At this stage
.B mogconvert
is pre-alpha.
.SH AUTHORS
.TP
.TP
Developers (Alphabetical Order):
.br
Angelorum        <angelorum@murrell.co.nz>
.br
Edward Murrell   <edward@murrell.co.nz>
.P
Internet references:
.br
http://murrell.co.nz/~edward/mog/
